so imagine your life isn't everything it
could be that's generally not that hard
to imagine but then also imagine that
there's some variation you know week to
week is that maybe you're pretty damn
miserable but sometime you're
unbelievably miserable and sometime
you're just sort of miserable and that's
not great but at least there's some
variability one of the things you might
do as a
clinician or as a friend or as a
partner is say well exactly what are you
doing when you're less miserable
and what are you doing when you're more
miserable don't think about it watch
like you're watching someone you don't
know this often happens with depressed
people so one of the problems with
depression is it's a positive feedback
loop hey because you get depressed and
then you stop seeing your friends and
even if you're introverted there's
friends you want to see at least
oneon-one at least now and then so now
you start to isolate yourself and then
you get more depressed and then you
isolate yourself more
then you get more depressed it's
downhill spiral you know it's not good a
lot of forms of mental illness are
positive feedback loops that spiral out
of control so one of the things you
might do with a depressed person they
come to see you if you're a therapist
you might say look just for the next
week or two weeks or so I want you to
just keep a mood record you know maybe
check in with yourself every hour scale
from 1 to 10 just write down how
depressed you are with 10 being suicidal
and one being as good as you get let's
say or maybe even life is worth living
and maybe the depressed person never
gets you know below six or something but
six is way better than 10 and then they
come back and you look and you think oh
look every time you were at 6 instead of
10 you were you were with this
particular person or this set of people
or maybe you're working in your garden
who knows right or maybe if you're
artistic you were doing something
artistic despite the fact that you're
paralyzed by your depression but notice
your mood improved some and then look 10
out of 10 depressed you're alone in your
room in bed it's like not it's like 11:
in the morning it's like okay so how
about this next week don't be alone in
your bed at 11:00 in the morning and
spend like 20% more time or 10% or
2% with your friends or doing something
that seems to improve not your mood but
your state of being and then play with
that and see you know can you tilt
yourself gradually and incrementally
comparing yourself to who you were
yesterday can you tilt yourself in the
right
direction and then well that's for
depressed people you might say well
could you do that in your life and the
answer
is
yes so the
Egyptians worship this god Horus h o r
us and Horus you know Horus weirdly
enough everyone knows that famous
Egyptian eye you know with the arched
eyebrow and you know on the back of an
American dollar bill you have an eye
that's separated from the pyramid that's
Horus as well interestingly enough
that's the gold cap on a pyramid it's
the aluminum cap on the Washington
Monument aluminum was more precious than
gold when they built the Washington
Monument the top of a pyramid is the
gold cap and the gold cap is the eye and
what's the eye the eye is the thing that
pays attention and so Horus was the eye
and he was the eye that could see evil
and rectify it by the way and he was
also a falcon and the reason he was a
falcon is because a falcon is a bird of
prey that flies above everything and
that can see and birds of prey they can
see better than us we're we're very
visual animals we have the second best
visual systems of any animal Birds of
Prey see better than we do they can see
clearer and farther an an a falcon if a
falcon was on top of the Empire State
Building he could see a dime on the
pavement below they're unbelievably
sharp eyed and ancient people knew this
they hunted with birds of prey and they
watched them they knew they had
spectacular vision and so they used the
Falcon as an image of redeeming
vision and they Associated redeeming
Vision with the sun setting and and
Rising because the sun shines when you
can see and so that's a solar God and
that's the hero that fights the dragon
at night and that comes up victorious in
the morning a very old idea that's all
associated with vision and vision pays
attention assume that the person you are
listening to might know something you
don't how doesn't mean everything you
don't and that might mean hardly
anything at all but maybe you could
glean something and because you're
clueless and Confused anything you glean
might be useful and so it's useful to
attend like in a in a in a in a manner
that's infused with humility why
humility because you need to know that
what you don't know is more important
than what you do know that's a hard
thing to learn because you want to
fortify what you know man because it
feels protective and it's very
threatening to move on the periphery of
what you know but there's a lot of what
you don't know a lot and you need to
know it and what do you what attitude do
you need to bring to bear on what you
don't know it's like pay attention there
might be something there for you and so
then you attend to yourself and that
ties us back up to the first rule which
is treat yourself like you're someone
who you might be responsible for helping
well what does that mean like you don't
know who you are because you
don't as if you're someone made in the
image of god let's say someone despite
your flaws of divine intrinsic value who
who could hypothetically be a light on
the hill hard as that is to
believe and then watch and see when
you're where you should
be and maybe you're only a bit of the
way there you know and it's you're kind
of your life is hell to Purgatory that's
it there's very little glimpse of
paradise but Purgatory beats the hell
out of hell and so maybe you can move
from Hell into purgatory that would be
something and maybe when you're there
now and then
you're getting a little bit beyond that
you think you know right at this moment
for whatever
reason I'm not doing something so
terrible that I'm in
hell what is going
on what's the circumstance what did I
allow to
happen that made this possible it's a
it's a form of Awakening in the in the
most profound sense to notice when that
happens then you think could would I be
there more often 1% more
often that compounds very quickly you
know if it's 1% a week for a year you're
going to be there like twice as long in
a year as you were before you started
and God only knows how good you could
get at that if you didn't do anything
other than that let's say if you really
committed to that God only knows what
your life could be like in 5 years or 10
years maybe you could be in that state
all the time and who knows what effect
effect you'd have on you and your family
and the people around you if you were in
that state and that's something worth
thinking about too and maybe that's a
good thing to close you know we have
this notion developed not least in in
your great
country that people have an intrinsic
worth that we're Sovereign citizens that
we're all possessed of a voice that
redeems the state that's why we have an
inalienable right to to free speech
let's say because we're necessary
corrective to the blindness and archaic
nature of the state we're the living
eyes of the Dead
King and maybe that's really true then
you think well if the world isn't
everything you want it to be I set your
house in perfect order before you
criticize the
world if the world isn't everything that
you want it to
be maybe you're not acting the way you
should you know cuz there's some in
in our deepest ideas that the word the
weight of the world rests on your
shoulders now that's a terrible thing to
think but maybe it's true and it's an
open question how much of the mess that
you see around you would
vanish if the mess that you
could put straight was put
straight and you know you know you know
this too to some degree because to the
degree that you you've not become
entirely embittered and cynical and
hopeless you know perfectly well that if
you put your mind to it and you make the
proper sacrifices there are things you
can set straight and that if you do that
diligently things actually
improve and so because otherwise if you
didn't believe that you wouldn't act at
all like well maybe you just turn to
completely catastrophic short-term
impulsive pleasure something like that
you have to believe that your action has
some Redemptive possibility cuz why
would you do it otherwise and you might
say well I kind of believe that it's
like well that's not good enough you
know you you kind of got to throw
yourself all into it and what's the cost
anyways you know it's not like you're
going to get out of this alive so you're
pretty much all in whether you want to
be or not and maybe if you were
voluntarily all in things would be a lot
better than they are and that's an
exciting thing to try to find out know
if you allowed yourself to be guided by
the intimation of meaning and I mean
defined on your terms in some real sense
if you swore that you do your best not
to use deceit and instrumental
manipulation if you decided that you
were going to put things
straight what do you think might happen